Create CHARTER.md (#74)
maplibre/maplibre: CHARTER.md

# MapLibre Charter

## Definitions

*MapLibre Organization:* An umbrella organization to develop, maintain and promote MapLibre software projects

*MapLibre Projects:* multiple repositories, each being some part of the map visualization stack from the raw data to the map visualization and interaction.

> *MapLibre:* As a single word, “MapLibre” is a brand name used by the front-end map rendering MapLibre projects (i.e. code libraries).

Reviewer: I'd have expected this to be the description for "MapLibre GL". There are also other MapLibre Projects which might not be "front-end map rendering".

Overall, looking over the project list, there seems to be no clear consensus on how projects should be named (yet).

Reviewer: nit: The headline of this document also refers to the "MapLibre"-Charter, which might be misleading as only affecting those projects.

Reviewer 2: The intention here is to preserve the MapLibre "brand" for rendering libraries, so even if other projects under the organizational umbrella eventually offer alternatives to our sponsors' own projects, there's no conflict for them to promote MapLibre by name.

I think there's room for a healthy discussion on the pros/cons of this and how it affects our project naming approach.

Author: Using the name "MapLibre" for frontend rendering projects goes back to the discussion about the scope of the MapLibre Organization, see https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre/discussions/27. Practically what it means for us is that we want to put the name "MapLibre" into project names which have to do with frontend rendering.

Examples of good project names:
* :heavy_check_mark: maplibre-gl-js 
* :heavy_check_mark: maplibre-gl-native
* :heavy_check_mark: maplibre-rs
* :heavy_check_mark: maplibre-gl-directions

Examples of what would be bad project names:
* :heavy_multiplication_x: maplibre-tileserver
* :heavy_multiplication_x: maplibre-tile-generator

Author: Feel free to reopen this conversation @JannikGM. I will close it for now...

> *MapLibre Community:* People interested in the MapLibre Projects. Anyone can be part of the MapLibre Community and there are no special requirements except to follow community code of conduct. For example, the Community members … :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*MapLibre Community:* People interested in the MapLibre Projects. Anyone can be part of the MapLibre Community and there are no special requirements except to follow the Community Code of Conduct. For example, the Community members … :
```

Where does the Code of Conduct live? We should link out to it.

>  * evangelize the MapLibre Project

Reviewer: This follows the definitions, but already uses a non-defined term.

Did you mean "MapLibre Organization" / "MapLibre Projects" / "MapLibre Community" / ...?
Right now, this could be understood as one of the "MapLibre Projects" (follow up questions: which one?).

Reviewer 2: > MapLibre Organization

I believe this one. @wipfli can correct me if I'm wrong. I think it's just a holdover from a previous draft. :)

Author: Yes

Author: Might also be an English mistake. @nyurik google says these would be examples to use the word "evangelize": 
> The missionaries set out to evangelize the world.
> They were evangelizing about the importance of saving energy.

Author: Rephrased it...

>  * evangelize the MapLibre Project

Author: ```suggestion
 * evangelize about the MapLibre Organization and its Projects
```

>  * educate new users of project’s strengths and weaknesses

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * educate new users on the project’s strengths and weaknesses
```

 * provide moral support (a ‘thank you’ goes a long way)
 * support the MapLibre Organization financially
 * improve code and fix bugs
 * help with documentation
 * give advice to others

> *Technical Steering Committee:* An informal group of people who meet on a monthly basis and discuss technical topics related to software development. Anyone is free to join the Technical Steering Committee.

Reviewer 3: For consistency with references below:

```suggestion
*Technical Steering Committee:* An informal group of people who meet on a monthly basis and discuss technical topics related to software development. Everyone is welcome to join the Technical Steering Committee.
```

*Voting Member:* A person who can elect the Governing Board and vote on changes to the MapLibre Charter.

> *Governing Board:* The elected representatives of the MapLibre Community who help shape the Project's overall direction and who decide over the Project's finances.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Governing Board:* The elected representatives of the MapLibre Community who help shape the Project's overall direction and who have discretion over the Project's finances.
```

*Third-party Organization:* A company or organization that uses MapLibre software for commercial or non-commercial purposes.

## MapLibre Organization Goals

> The MapLibre Organization develops free open-source mapping libraries and tools for others to build applications and services.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The MapLibre Organization develops free and open-source libraries and tools for mapping that enable others build applications and services.
```

The primary goal of the MapLibre Organization is to build a friendly and innovative open-source community around the unaffiliated MapLibre Projects.

The MapLibre Organization aims to encourage code development. We prefer to empower our users to build end-user applications, design maps, run map hosting services or distribute data rather than making it part of the MapLibre Projects.

## Governance Bodies
The MapLibre Organization has three Governance Bodies which support and represent the broader MapLibre Community:

 * Technical Steering Committee
 * Governing Board
 * Voting Members

### Technical Steering Committee

> The Technical Steering Committee discusses technical topics that affect multiple MapLibre projects, coordinates ongoing work, and decides if proposed changes with a major impact should be accepted or not.

Reviewer 3: I may be conflating the TSC with the monthly meeting, but I'm not sure this is where final decisions on accepting proposed changes should live, since the TSC may not represent relevant stakeholders fully. The clarification below about individual projects forming their own steering committees may negate my concern though. Curious what others think here.

Reviewer 2: IMO: TSC has the authority to take informal, generally binding votes, but the governing board has the authority to overrule these votes.

That may be overly pragmatic, but I'm comfortable with that for now.

Author: The Technical Steering Committee meets on a monthly basis and we want it to be open to everyone. If you come regularly to these meetings, you will be part of the Technical Steering Committee. We will only have an election for the Governing Board and if there is a dispute about a technical thing, it is the Governing Board who will decided what to do.

Author: So far the Technical Steering Committee meetings did not lead to decisions which would have gone against the will of somebody who my coincidence did not attend. But of course this might happen. As @klokan said recently, in an open-source project the people who contribute a lot and are around are the ones who shape the project...

Author: Closing this for now, feel free to reopen, @mojodna...

The committee meets on a monthly basis on a video call. 

The Technical Steering Committee is open to everyone and there are no special requirements if someone wants to join it.

Some projects may have their own steering committees to discuss issues relevant to just that project (e.g., native, gl-js, …).

### Governing Board
The Governing Board helps the Community to define our scope and direction, and is responsible for the organization finances.

The Board is a group of 5 people who represent the MapLibre Organization.

While the Governing Board’s purpose is not to handle technical topics in general, the Board retains the authority over all decisions the MapLibre Projects make, and may overrule the Technical Steering Committee in case of a dispute.

No more than one person on the Governing Board shall be employed or contracted by a single Third-party organization.

The Board shall have at least the following roles:

>  * Treasurer: Takes care of financial transactions and accounting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * Treasurer: Responsible for financial transactions and accounting.
```

>  * Secretary: Writes and publishes meeting notes, manages Voting membership.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * Secretary: Responsible for taking and publishing meeting notes and management of Voting membership.
```

The Governing Board meets at least 4 times per year, publishes quarterly financial reports, and shares the content of their meetings with the MapLibre Community to the extent the Board deems appropriate.

### Voting Members

> Voting Members are people who elect the Governing Board and who vote on changes to the MapLibre Charter.

Reviewer 3: Is Voting membership indefinite? If so, let's keep an eye out for future motions or requirements requiring that individual votes cross some membership % threshold (because we may never be able to cross them at some point).

Reviewer 2: That's a good catch @mojodna. It is indefinite at the moment, but we may need to limit that (or limit %-based voting to active members).

Author: For now we do not need to limit the duration of Voting Membership I think. What I want to make sure is that the Voting Members are informed early enough about an upcoming vote or election, that they have time to form an opinion, and that they have a very high probability of being able to take part in the vote or election. If a Voting Member then for some reason does not participate, we have to respect that.

The election or vote result will only be required to have a majority of the people who participated in the vote or election.

Author: I am inclined to put some notice period for votes and elections into the Charter...

Reviewer 2: I think that resolves the issues nicely @wipfli!

A precondition to becoming a Voting Member is that the person contributed in a non-trivial way or that they donated funds to the MapLibre Organization.

> If Voting Members are paid by a Third-party organization for their work on the MapLibre Projects, they shall declare publicly who their employer is. At most 10 percent of the Voting Members shall be employed by a single Third-party organization.

Reviewer 3: Thinking a bit about how to manage this when Voting members join a 3P organization... The default (and probably right) situation is for their Voting seat to be put on hold for the duration of their employment. To remain a Voting member in good standing, they'd coordinate with existing Voting members affiliated with that 3P offline (not a public consideration).

Did the board discuss the distinction between personal and professional involvement of 3P employees and come to any conclusions? [(Context](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre/discussions/32#discussioncomment-3149796)]

Reviewer 2: > Did the board discuss the distinction between personal and professional involvement of 3P employees and come to any conclusions? https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre/discussions/32#discussioncomment-3149796]

Yes, this was discussed, but I think there's still some ambiguity in the charter (obviously) and differing opinions on this.

I _think_ the best option so far is:

1) Apply the absolute rule to the governing board (no more than one member can be from one organization, regardless of professional or private contributions).
2) Apply a flexible rule to the voting membership: only professional members are counted against the 10%.

Author: I asked all the Voting Members in private the following question:

> Would you like to declare that you are paid to work on MapLibre by a company?

And I collected the answers an will publish the next days. Some people clearly feel that they are paid to work on MapLibre related things. Ohers might work in a maps organization but their day job has nothing to do with any of the MapLibre Projects.

Author: In the end it is not so difficult to find out the employer of a person based on their GitHub handle. And we are still a small community.

One way we could go is that we write in the Charter that Voting Members have the right to declare a company that pays them to work on MapLibre related stuff. This allows them to show transparently to the broader community where they come from and who's interests they might represent...

Author: But yeah, it is a mess with that threshold. What I just want to avoid is that we get into a situation where one large organization has enough Voting Members to effectively determine alone who is on the Governing Board. The cool thing about open-source however is that people are free to walk away and fork the code. We always wanted and still want to avoid community fragmentation because on fork is better than many forks...

Author: The declared company affiliations were published in #95

Author: Added a note that Voting Members shall inform the MapLibre Organization if their work situation changes...

Author: Closing this for now. If we need more detailed instructions how to handle the situation when too many existing Voting Members join one company, feel free to suggest a change.

Voting Members can nominate other Community members to receive Voting membership in acknowledgement of their contributions to the MapLibre Projects. The Voting Members then vote on granting the nominee a Voting membership. 

Nominations for new Voting Members are open up to two weeks before the election of the Governing Board and the vote on granting Voting Membership to somebody takes place one week before the election of the Governing Board.

### Governing Board Election

> Nomination process:

Author: ```suggestion
Governing Board elections are announced at least four weeks in advance.

Nomination process:
```

Author: @lseelenbinder something like this?

Reviewer 2: Seems fine to me. 👍

 * A person can nominate themselves as a candidate for the Governing Board.
 * Candidates have to register themselves up to 2 weeks before the election.

> Voting process:

Reviewer 3: @almccon as the resident geo RCV aficionado, is there anything you'd weigh in on here?

Author: Closing for now. Feel free to add comments @almccon...

 * Governing Board elections take place every year.

>  * Each Voting Member can vote for up to 5 nominees with ranked voting principle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * Each Voting Member can vote for up to 5 nominees using ranked-choice voting.
```

>  * Each Voting Member can vote for up to 5 nominees using ranked-choice voting.

Author: ```suggestion
 * Each Voting Member ranks all nominees according to ranked-choice voting.
```

Author: We should do it this way because maybe someone resigns from serving on the Governing Board during a term and then we need a replacement. Or am I misunderstanding the ranked-voting system?

Reviewer 2: Looks correct to me 👍

Then we’ll get a total ordering to use if needed (perhaps life situations change, and someone can’t accept, etc.).

I’m not certain if the previous vote should be used in the event of a resignation. In that case, given a good bit of time could have passed, a special election seems better to me.

 * The nominee with the largest number of votes gets appointed, the nominee with the second largest number of votes gets appointed, and so on.
 * In case there are multiple nominees per Third-party organization, only the one with the largest number of votes gets appointed.
 * In case of a tie where more nominees than remaining seats receive an equal number of votes, the vote shall be repeated for the remaining seats.

### Terms of Governing Board Members
Governing Board members will serve for a one-year term.

### Governing Board Member Remuneration

> Governing Board members receive no remuneration by the MapLibre Organization for their services on the Board, other than reimbursement for the out-of-pocket expenses incurred when carrying out activities on behalf of the Governing Board. Such expenses must be pre-authorized by at least two other board members.

Reviewer 4: I believe this is not clear enough -- this paragraph makes it ambiguous if someone can sit on the board - vote for fund distributions (i.e. grants), and later receive those grants, or even be contracted by the board to perform some task.   I think it creates a serious conflict of interest, as they would essentially vote to pay themselves.

That said, I am fully aware that if someone indirectly benefits financially from the MapLibre projects, they also cannot be fully impartial. Unfortunately, this includes pretty much everyone because all of us have some sort of interest in MapLibre's success one way or another.

Author: Thanks for sharing this concern @nyurik. I would say that activity on the Board cannot be paid, but work related to maintenance of MapLibre Projects by a Governing Board member can be paid. But then there is of course that conflict of interest as you have mentioned. I don't know how to solve this problem...

Reviewer 2: Agreed that board membership is not remunerated (except _maybe_ in the edge case of some token gesture voted on by the voting members).

> work related to maintenance of MapLibre Projects by a Governing Board member can be paid.

I think the only way this would be acceptable is if the member receiving the funds did not participate in the vote to approve the funds, and even then it opens up the door for "you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours" arrangements which could reduce  the integrity of the board.

I'm inclined to disallow the governing board members from receiving funds, with the possible exception of something directly related to work that anyone could have done (e.g., bounties).

Reviewer 4: Note that there is even worse cases -- something like "I am interested in the tile serving, and want to work on that, therefor I will vote to reduce the funding to Native because this way there will be more funding for me".  All this is hypothetical, but it may cause issues.

Reviewer 2: A few important points were raised by @maxammann & @mojodna yesterday in the TSC meeting.

1) Transparency (which is already required of the board) is just as or more important than the decision to pay or not pay the board.
2) Transparently compensating any contributions that meet a well-defined bar is probably better than not compensating a contribution simply because it comes from the governing board.
3) If the transparency does not serve to control malicious behavior by the board (which is elected by the voting membership and funded by generous sponsors), then the corruption is already far enough along that the community has little to no future and sponsors would likely stop funding.

Author: Fortunately all transactions are transparent already on opencollective. What we might need in addition to that are transparent decisions. I think the Governing Board should explain in written form how it came to a financial decision and publish it somewhere.

Author: We might want to add a section about how we want to handle conflicts of interest of Board members. Maybe something along the lines of https://www.councilofnonprofits.org/tools-resources/conflicts-of-interest

Author: I think we should allow payments from the MapLibre Organization to Governing Board members for work which is not related to their services on the Board.

Author: @nyurik what do you think?

Author: Because even if we forbid payments to Board members from the MapLibre Organization completely, we still don't address the situation where Governing Board member A contracts with Company B to work on MapLibre Repository C. They will have a direct financial interest that the Board puts resources into Repository C...

Author: So my point is just let's do good conflict of interest management where we are transparent about what is going on and then we can also pay Board members to maintain a repository.

Reviewer 4: Sigh, seems like there is no good solution.  If a board member works for a company that uses a project, that person will always have a conflict of interest in regards to that project, and will always steer funding towards that project at the expense of other projects.  I don't know of a good solution to have an impartial board. At the same time, I wouldn't want the board to become as ... irrelevant, as a Wikipedia board, so some vested interest is helpful I guess.

Author: I also want to have people on the Board which care about what the MapLibre Organization does.

I think it is fine to have people with a conflict of interest. It is just important to have a diversity of conflicts such that the Board members don't push the MapLibre Organization in a direction which would just benefit one actor.

Reviewer 3: I think it could remain internal to a given board, but I think it would be valuable for each board member to have an informal understanding of others’ potential conflicts of interest to facilitate discussions when decisions to recusal are more nuanced. 

I’m not suggesting a change, just that a given board should be able to sort out its collective conflicts of interest and recuse appropriately. I don’t think the reasons need to (or should, for potentially sensitive reasons) be public, just the fact of the recusal.

Author: Let's continue this discussion in #100.

### Replacement of Governing Board Members

> In the event of a Governing Board member resigning from the Board during a term, the nominees from the last election with the largest number of votes shall be contacted with a proposal to serve in the Government Board  until the next election is called.

Reviewer: nit: double space between "Government Board" and "until".

Reviewer 4: @JannikGM just fyi, there is a suggestion box that would make this type of edit much easier -- 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1641515/183306059-5aba6b95-2adc-4a9c-89b3-13eef93e1875.png)

```suggestion
In the event of a Governing Board member resigning from the Board during a term, the nominees from the last election with the largest number of votes shall be contacted with a proposal to serve in the Government Board until the next election is called.
```

Nomination process:

 * A person can nominate themselves as a candidate for the Governing Board.
 * Candidates have to register themselves up to 2 weeks before the election.

Voting process:

 * Governing Board elections take place every year.
 * Each Voting Member ranks all nominees according to ranked-choice voting.
 * The nominee with the largest number of votes gets appointed, the nominee with the second largest number of votes gets appointed, and so on.
 * In case there are multiple nominees per Third-party organization, only the one with the largest number of votes gets appointed.
 * In case of a tie where more nominees than remaining seats receive an equal number of votes, the vote shall be repeated for the remaining seats.

### Terms of Governing Board Members
Governing Board members will serve for a one-year term.

### Governing Board Member Remuneration
Governing Board members receive no remuneration by the MapLibre Organization for their services on the Board, other than reimbursement for the out-of-pocket expenses incurred when carrying out activities on behalf of the Governing Board. Such expenses must be pre-authorized by at least two other board members.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
### Conflicts of Interest
The Governing Board develops a conflict of interest policy which details how Governing Board members can disclose conflicts of interest between their role as MapLibre Governing Board members and other professional and personal activities. 

The policy shall be reviewed on a regular basis and be publicly available. 

Board members with a conflict of interest with regards to a give matter abstain from votes connected to it.
```

Author: @birkskyum do you think something like this could make sense?

Reviewer 5: "The Governing Board develops a conflict of interest policy" I'm not sure I understand this sentence...

Author: I wanted to say here that the Governing Board has the task of working out a policy or strategy how they handle conflicts of interest. The details of this policy are not part of the Charter, but the Board has the duty to work out a policy.

Reviewer 5: Maybe:
The Governing Board will make sure a conflict of interest policy exists. Any changes to that policy should... (I don't know, probably much like other policies, right?)

Author: Sounds good to me. Let me commit my suggestion and then you can directly rewrite the sentence...

*MapLibre Community:* People interested in the MapLibre Projects. Anyone can be part of the MapLibre Community and there are no special requirements except to follow the Community Code of Conduct. For example, the Community members … :

 * evangelize about the MapLibre Organization and its Projects
 * educate new users on the project’s strengths and weaknesses
 * provide moral support (a ‘thank you’ goes a long way)
 * support the MapLibre Organization financially
 * improve code and fix bugs
 * help with documentation
 * give advice to others

*Technical Steering Committee:* An informal group of people who meet on a monthly basis and discuss technical topics related to software development. Everyone is welcome to join the Technical Steering Committee.

*Voting Member:* A person who can elect the Governing Board and vote on changes to the MapLibre Charter.

*Governing Board:* The elected representatives of the MapLibre Community who help shape the Project's overall direction and who are responsible for the Project's finances.

*Third-party Organization:* A company or organization that uses MapLibre software for commercial or non-commercial purposes.

> ## MapLibre Organization Goals

Reviewer: nit: Formatting changed here; previous headline was followed by a blank line (which is probably better?). It also changes again further down below.

Reviewer 3: Markdownlint likes newlines, fwiw. Probably worth running it through that before finalizing to avoid people wanting to make changes after this has been voted on.

Author: Good idea... https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre/pull/99

 * A person can nominate themselves as a candidate for the Governing Board.
 * Candidates have to register themselves up to 2 weeks before the election.

Voting process:

 * Governing Board elections take place every year.
 * Each Voting Member ranks all nominees according to ranked-choice voting.
 * The nominee with the largest number of votes gets appointed, the nominee with the second largest number of votes gets appointed, and so on.
 * In case there are multiple nominees per Third-party organization, only the one with the largest number of votes gets appointed.
 * In case of a tie where more nominees than remaining seats receive an equal number of votes, the vote shall be repeated for the remaining seats.

### Terms of Governing Board Members
Governing Board members will serve for a one-year term.

### Governing Board Member Remuneration
Governing Board members receive no remuneration by the MapLibre Organization for their services on the Board, other than reimbursement for the out-of-pocket expenses incurred when carrying out activities on behalf of the Governing Board. Such expenses must be pre-authorized by at least two other board members.
### Conflicts of Interest

> The Governing Board develops a conflict of interest policy which details how Governing Board members can disclose conflicts of interest between their role as MapLibre Governing Board members and other professional and personal activities. 

Reviewer 3: Per above, I think this can be lightweight, so this section would be more about awareness that conflicts will arise and the board members will be responsible about them. (Sorry, can’t draft something right now.)

Author: #100

The policy shall be reviewed on a regular basis and be publicly available. 

> Board members with a conflict of interest with regards to a give matter abstain from votes connected to it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Board members with a conflict of interest with regard to a given matter shall abstain from associated votes.
```

### Replacement of Governing Board Members
In the event of a Governing Board member resigning from the Board during a term, the nominees from the last election with the largest number of votes shall be contacted with a proposal to serve in the Government Board until the next election is called.

### Snap Election

> A snap election of the Governing Board, i.e. an election which takes place earlier than the usual one year period, can be called if 50 percent of Voting Members who participated in the last election sign a no-confidence motion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A snap election of the Governing Board, i.e., an election which takes place within the usual one year period, may be called if 50 percent of Voting Members who participated in the last election sign a no-confidence motion.
```

If a no-confidence motion passes, the current Governing Board shall until the next election not take any major decision, such as but not limited to:

> * authorize new expenditures,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* authorizing new expenditures
```

> * make any changes to personnel.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* making any changes to personnel
```

> Within two weeks, people can register themselves for the election with a self-nomination. Two weeks after the self-nomination deadline, the snap election shall take place, i.e. four weeks after a no-confidence motion passes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Within two weeks, Voting Members may self-nominate for the upcoming election. The snap election shall take place two weeks after the self-nomination deadline, i.e., four weeks after a no-confidence motion passes.
```

Author: Anyone can serve on the Board, not only Voting Members, right?

Author: Used the wording from the main election section "a person can ...".

## Changes to the MapLibre Charter

* Voting Members can propose changes to the MapLibre Charter.

> * Changes to the Charter require a Voting Members vote with a two-thirds majority.

Reviewer 3: 2/3 of all eligible Voting Members or 2/3 of those who voted? IMO, it needs to be the latter, explicitly, or we paint ourselves into a corner in the future and can never amend the charter.

Author: Let's always use the majority (be it 50 percent or 2/3 or whatever) of the people who voted.

Author: Let's always use the majority (be it 50 percent or 2/3 or whatever) of the people who voted.

Author: And use sufficiently long notice periods such that people can vote...

Author: Specified the majority to be 2/3 of the people who participate in the vote.

# MapLibre Charter

## Definitions

> *MapLibre Organization:* An umbrella organization to develop, maintain and promote MapLibre software projects

Author: ```suggestion
*MapLibre Organization:* An umbrella organization to develop, maintain and promote MapLibre software projects.
```

> *MapLibre Projects:* multiple repositories, each being some part of the map visualization stack from the raw data to the map visualization and interaction.

Author: ```suggestion
*MapLibre Projects:* Multiple repositories, each being some part of the map visualization stack from the raw data to the map visualization and interaction.
```

*MapLibre:* As a single word, “MapLibre” is a brand name used by the front-end map rendering MapLibre projects (i.e. code libraries).

*MapLibre Community:* People interested in the MapLibre Projects. Anyone can be part of the MapLibre Community and there are no special requirements except to follow the Community Code of Conduct. For example, the Community members … :

* evangelize about the MapLibre Organization and its Projects
* educate new users on the project’s strengths and weaknesses
* provide moral support (a ‘thank you’ goes a long way)
* support the MapLibre Organization financially
* improve code and fix bugs
* help with documentation
* give advice to others

*Technical Steering Committee:* An informal group of people who meet on a monthly basis and discuss technical topics related to software development. Everyone is welcome to join the Technical Steering Committee.

*Voting Member:* A person who can elect the Governing Board and vote on changes to the MapLibre Charter.

> *Governing Board:* The elected representatives of the MapLibre Community who help shape the Project's overall direction and who are responsible for the Project's finances.

Author: ```suggestion
*Governing Board:* The elected representatives of the MapLibre Community who help shape the Organization's overall direction and who are responsible for the Organization's finances.
```

## MapLibre Organization Goals

The MapLibre Organization develops free and open-source libraries and tools for mapping that enable others build applications and services.

The primary goal of the MapLibre Organization is to build a friendly and innovative open-source community around the unaffiliated MapLibre Projects.

The MapLibre Organization aims to encourage code development. We prefer to empower our users to build end-user applications, design maps, run map hosting services or distribute data rather than making it part of the MapLibre Projects.

## Governance Bodies

The MapLibre Organization has three Governance Bodies which support and represent the broader MapLibre Community:

* Technical Steering Committee
* Governing Board
* Voting Members

### Technical Steering Committee

The Technical Steering Committee discusses technical topics that affect multiple MapLibre projects, coordinates ongoing work, and decides if proposed changes with a major impact should be accepted or not.

The committee meets on a monthly basis on a video call.

The Technical Steering Committee is open to everyone and there are no special requirements if someone wants to join it.

> Some projects may have their own steering committees to discuss issues relevant to just that project (e.g., native, gl-js, …).

Author: ```suggestion
Some Projects may have their own steering committees to discuss issues relevant to just that Project (e.g., native, gl-js, …).
```

### Governing Board

The Governing Board helps the Community to define our scope and direction, and is responsible for the organization finances.

The Board is a group of 5 people who represent the MapLibre Organization.

While the Governing Board’s purpose is not to handle technical topics in general, the Board retains the authority over all decisions the MapLibre Projects make, and may overrule the Technical Steering Committee in case of a dispute.

> No more than one person on the Governing Board shall be employed or contracted by a single Third-party organization.

Author: ```suggestion
No more than one person on the Governing Board shall be employed or contracted by a single third-party organization.
```

Voting Members shall inform the MapLibre Organization if their work situation with respect to being paid for working on MapLibre Projects changes.

Voting Members can nominate other Community members to receive Voting membership in acknowledgement of their contributions to the MapLibre Projects. The Voting Members then vote on granting the nominee a Voting membership.

Nominations for new Voting Members are open up to two weeks before the election of the Governing Board and the vote on granting Voting Membership to somebody takes place one week before the election of the Governing Board.

### Governing Board Election

Governing Board elections are announced at least four weeks in advance.

Nomination process:

* A person can nominate themselves as a candidate for the Governing Board.
* Candidates have to register themselves up to 2 weeks before the election.

Voting process:

* Governing Board elections take place every year.
* Each Voting Member ranks all nominees according to ranked-choice voting.

> * The nominee with the largest number of votes gets appointed, the nominee with the second largest number of votes gets appointed, and so on.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* In case there are multiple nominees per Third-party organization, only the one with the largest number of votes gets appointed.

> * In case of a tie where more nominees than remaining seats receive an equal number of votes, the vote shall be repeated for the remaining seats.

Author: ```suggestion
* In case of a tie where more nominees than remaining seats receive an equal ranking, the vote shall be repeated for the remaining seats.
```
